chore: Add May blog post (#650)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: blog/vscode-remote-development-setup-and-usage.mdx

Linux (WSL) as a full-featured development environment”. What it means, is that
you will have your source code located on a single place, and you will be able
to update it seamlessly from another system using VS Code.

_Note: see our
[blog post on installing a WSL development environment](https://developers.front-commerce.com/blog/wsl-development-environment)
if you're interested_

The requirements are:

- For the client, pretty much anything capable of running VS Code _(with special
  needs for containers for Microsoft Windows due to Docker’s own requirements)_
- For the host, a wide range of systems are supported. If you’re not using a
  “mainstream” OS or distribution, you might want to check the requirements
  section of the
  [extension pack’s Marketplace page](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack).

In this blog post, we’ll only talk about the SSH connections, so you will need
to ensure that your host has an SSH Host set up. If you don’t, you can follow
[Microsoft’s guide on how to setup one](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/troubleshooting#_installing-a-supported-ssh-server).

> For example, on Ubuntu, it is as simple as running the command

Reviewer: **nitpick:** I usually try (but it requires attention and rigor!) to ban words such as "simple" or "just have to" from written content to prevent implying a judgment. It can often just be removed without changing the meaning.

See https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-s for other useful things
> simple, simply
> What might be simple for you might not be simple for others. Try eliminating this word from the sentence because usually the same meaning can be conveyed without it.

**suggestion:** 
> For example, on Ubuntu, you can run the command

It is used at several other places in this post, so if you want to go this path it would be useful to do a re-reading dedicated to looking for those.

Author: That's a very good remark actually, thank you.

Will do the re-read!

`sudo apt-get install openssh-server`.

> ### Installation

Reviewer: **issue:** screenshots and instructions might quickly become outdated.

**suggestion:** it would be great to add an aside with the versions used for the screenshots and instructions at the time of writing, so that future readers can compare with their settings

Example:
> At the time of writing, this guide uses screenshots and instructions for VS Code xxx and Remote Development yyy

Author: Added a `:::info`

The public key will need to be copied onto your host. On Linux systems you will
need to add the content of the public key to the end of the
`~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file. If the file doesn’t exist, just copy your public
key in `~/.ssh/`, rename the file to `authorized_keys` and give it a permission
of 600:

```bash
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

#### Make VS Code use the key

On your client IDE, go to the Remote Explorer, and click the cog icon next to
the SSH section, and then open the config file shown in the popup by clicking on
it:

![SSH setting icon](./assets/vscode-remote-development-setup-and-usage/ssh-setting-icon.png)

In this file, you’ll find the connection you just set up and its configuration.
In order to make VSCode use the key you just created, add these lines to the
configuration section:

```bash
Host <my_host>
  HostName <my_host>
  User <my_user>
  Port 22
  PreferredAuthentications publickey
  IdentityFile "~/.ssh/<my_host>_rsa"
```

After this, VS Code should not ask for your user's password again !

## Pros and cons

Every method has its own advantages and disadvantages, and using this one
certainly does not make any exception to this rule.

### Pros

> As stated in during the installation part, one of the most convenient points of
> this method is the ease of use. Installation is really easy and well documented
> on VS Code docs, and within VS Code itself. Configuring it on a brand new
> machine should not take more than a few minutes, and you will immediately have
> access to all of your host’s installed extension without needing to authenticate
> to your Microsoft of Visual Studio account.

Reviewer: **nitpick:** paragraphs makes it a bit harder to scan the pros/cons

**suggestion:** add a heading for each of them

```suggestion
#### Ease of use
As stated in during the installation part, one of the most convenient points of
this method is the ease of use. Installation is really easy and well documented
on VS Code docs, and within VS Code itself. Configuring it on a brand new
machine should not take more than a few minutes, and you will immediately have
access to all of your host’s installed extension without needing to authenticate
to your Microsoft of Visual Studio account.
```

etc. for others

development, without any server running locally. If VS Code does not detect the
local port correctly, you will only have to add it quickly through the Command
Palette `"Forward a Port"` command.

On the hardware side, my host (laptop, in my case) still stays as portable as
ever, as I would just have to put in in my bag and I’ll still be able to develop
on-the-go the same way I do on my desktop, without having to unplug anything
(beside the laptop’s charger). And once I’m back, I can reuse my home setup.

Finally, having such a setup with two machines is also an advantage for
development. Two machines means potentially two OSs, and it can become handy to
test some code on two completely different, yet very “real” environments. In my
case, My desktop runs on Windows and my laptop on Ubuntu, meaning I can easily
test OS-specific features if the need arises (it used to be really useful for
Internet Explorer, luckily gone are those days! 😅), while keeping the Linux CLI
environment I prefer.

### Cons

Here’s a catch though: two machines, also means two _running_ machines, which in
turn means more energy consumption as well. This is definitely not an

> environment friendly method !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment friendly setup!
```

you’re pretty new to working at home.

## Comparison with other methods I have tried

### Why not use a dock ?

Most docks are really great at what they are meant to do. Unfortunately, this
doesn’t include sharing peripherals between devices, which was my goal here. I
still use my dock, however in my current setup, since I use the same keyboard /
mouse for both my machines, it would mean plugging / unplugging those everyday
which is kind of painful.

### Using both machine efficiently: Synergy / Barrier

This was by far my most preferred method. [Synergy](https://symless.com/synergy)
(and its open source clone [Barrier](https://github.com/debauchee/barrier)) is a
keyboard and mouse sharing software, that enable a single pair of peripherals to
work on many different machines at the same time. Unlike VS Code remote (or SSH)
only, using Synergy you are able to actually use every device’s UI as well, and
coupled to VS Code Remote, you can basically use “any” number of machines the
same way you’ll be using one.

Unfortunately, I had a bug on Ubuntu using Barrier that made me stop using this
method some times ago as I couldn’t find a solution. If this issue was to be

> fixed however, I would hop in the Barrier train any day !

Reviewer: **nitpick:** there is no space before punctuation

**suggestion:** do a full search/replace on the blog post ` !` -> `!` (same for ` :` maybe)
```suggestion
fixed however, I would hop in the Barrier train any day!
```

---
title: "VSCode Remote Development: Setup and usage"
authors: [gaetan]
date: 2023-05-02T12:00
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# VSCode Remote Development: Setup and usage

Every developer has their own preferences for their setup, whether it be
software or hardware. I’ve been a remote developer since 2018, and since then
I’ve tried various ways to organize my workspace at home, that would fit both my
work and personal times.

> A typical remote developer kit will often include a laptop and one or more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A typical remote developer kit will often include a laptop or desktop and one or more
```

Author: Just to be clear, I meant a company-provided remote developer kit. That said, I'm not sure if your review still applies, although this sentence could be rephrased to specify what I meant.

## My current setup: **VS Code Remote Development**

### What is it ?

[VS Code Remote Development](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview)
is an extension pack for Microsoft’s widely used IDE VS Code. It allows
developers to “use a container, remote machine, or the Windows Subsystem for
Linux (WSL) as a full-featured development environment”. What it means, is that
you will have your source code located on a single place, and you will be able
to update it seamlessly from another system using VS Code.

_Note: see our
[blog post on installing a WSL development environment](https://developers.front-commerce.com/blog/wsl-development-environment)
if you're interested_

The requirements are:

- For the client, pretty much anything capable of running VS Code _(with special
  needs for containers for Microsoft Windows due to Docker’s own requirements)_
- For the host, a wide range of systems are supported. If you’re not using a
  “mainstream” OS or distribution, you might want to check the requirements
  section of the
  [extension pack’s Marketplace page](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack).

> In this blog post, we’ll only talk about the SSH connections, since that’s what
> I currently use. In that sense, note that you will need to ensure that your host
> has an SSH Host set up. If you don’t, you can follow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we’ll only talk about the SSH connections, So you will need 
to ensure that your host has an SSH Host set up. If you don’t, you can follow
```

The public key will need to be copied onto your host. On Linux systems you will
need to add the content of the public key to the file `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`,
at the bottom of the file. If this file doesn’t exist, just copy your public key
in `~/.ssh/`, rename the file `authorized_keys`, and give it a permission of
600:

```bash
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

#### Make VS Code use the key

On your client IDE, go to the Remote Explorer, and click the cog icon next to
the SSH section, and then open the config file shown in the popup by clicking on
it:

![SSH setting icon](./assets/vscode-remote-development-setup-and-usage/ssh-setting-icon.png)

In this file, you’ll find the connection you just set up and its configuration.
In order to make VSCode use the key you just created, add these lines to the
configuration section:

```bash
Host <my_host>
  HostName <my_host>
  User <my_user>
  Port 22
  PreferredAuthentications publickey
  IdentityFile "~/.ssh/<my_host>_rsa"
```

After this, VS Code should not ask for your user's password again !

## Pros and cons

Every method has its own advantages and disadvantages, and using this one

> certainly does not makes no exception to the rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
certainly does not make any exception to this rule.
```

### Pros

As stated in during the installation part, one of the nicest point of this
method is the ease of use. Installation is really easy and well documented on VS
Code docs, and within VS Code itself. Configuring it on a brand new machine
should not take more than a dozen minutes, and you will immediately have access
to all of your host’s installed extension without needing to authenticate to
your Microsoft of Visual Studio account.

Similarly, any terminal opened on the client will actually be an ssh connection
on your host, and VS Code is (most of the time) able to analyze your local app’s
log to automatically forward the right port on your local machine, which means
you will be able still connect to `localhost:XXXX` on your local machine during
development, without any server running locally. If VS Code does not detect the
local port correctly, you will only have to add it quickly through the Command
Palette `"Forward a Port"` command.

> On the hardware side, my host (laptop, in my case) still stay as portable as
> ever, as I would just have to put in in my bag and I’ll still be able to develop
> on-the-go the same way I do on my desktop, without having to unplug anything
> (beside the laptop’s charger). And once I’m back, I can reuse my home setup
> directly as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the hardware side, my host (laptop, in my case) still stays as portable as
ever, as I would just have to put in in my bag and I’ll still be able to develop
on-the-go the same way I do on my desktop, without having to unplug anything
(beside the laptop’s charger). And once I’m back, I can reuse my home setup.
```

Finally, having such a setup with two machines is also an advantage for
development. Two machines means potentially two OSs, and it can become handy to
test some code on two completely different, yet very “real” environments,
easily. In my case, My desktop runs on Windows and my laptop on Ubuntu, meaning
I can easily test OS-specific features if the need arises (it used to be really
useful for Internet Explorer, for example), while keeping the Linux CLI
environment I prefer.

### Cons

Here’s a catch tough: two machines, also means two _running_ machines, which in
turn means more energy consumption as well. This is definitely not an
environment friendly method !

> During specific use cases, I sometime encounter issues with port forwarding that
> force me to get back to my laptop’s keyboard, for example when using
> [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) with [Traefik](https://traefik.io/traefik/),
> VS Code is sometime confused about what port to forward and where to forward it
> to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During specific use cases, I sometimes encounter issues with port forwarding that
force me to get back to my laptop’s keyboard, for example when using
[Docker](https://www.docker.com/) with [Traefik](https://traefik.io/traefik/),
VS Code is sometimes confused about what port to forward and where to forward it
to.
```

On the hardware side, this method renders your laptop (or host) a bit less
useful, as most of the time you’ll work at home you won’t touch it much, besides
turning it on or off. We will see in the next part other methods I tried that
actually uses both machines actively.

On the management side, depending on how you manage your local machine, and how
(if) you use it outside of work, you’ll have to take extra care of not mixing
work and personal things, which can be extra tricky for some, especially if
you’re pretty new to working at home.

## Comparison with other methods I have tried

### Why not use a dock ?

Most docks are really great at what they are meant to do. Unfortunately, this
doesn’t include sharing peripherals between devices, which was my goal here. I
still use my dock, however in my current setup, since I use the same keyboard /
mouse for both my machines, it would mean plugging / unplugging those everyday
which is kind of painful.

### Using both machine efficiently: Synergy / Barrier

> This was from far my most preferred method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This was by far my most preferred method.
```

[Synergy](https://symless.com/synergy) (and its open source clone
[Barrier](https://github.com/debauchee/barrier)) is a keyboard and mouse sharing
software, that enable a single pair of peripherals to work on many different
machines at the same time. Unlike VS Code remote (or SSH) only, using Synergy
you are able to actually use every device’s UI as well, and coupled to VS Code
Remote, you can basically use “any” number of machines the same way you’ll be
using one.

Unfortunately, I had a bug on Ubuntu using Barrier that made me stop using this
method some times ago as I couldn’t find a solution. If this issue was to be
fixed however, I would hop in the Barrier train any day !

### Another point of view: the Virtual Machine way, and Tmux

> That’s a solution that requires a bit more setup, and isn’t really compatible
> with VS Code either, but might be interesting for Vi / Vim and terminal power
> users out there. Tmux is a terminal multiplexer, a software capable of running
> multiple terminal session in a single windows. This also allows terminal session
> to be “saved” and accessed from another device, meaning using terminal based
> editors, your could pickup your work directly right where you left it
> seamlessly, from pretty much any terminal on OSs supporting tmux (even from your
> phone!). Coupling Tmux with a Virtual-machine hosted source code, it would be
> one of the best method I can think of in terms of accessibility and portability
> (given you always have an internet connection where you go, which is not an hard
> requirement to satisfy in 2023).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That’s a solution that requires a bit more setup, and isn’t really compatible
with VS Code either, but might be interesting for Vi / Vim and terminal power
users out there. Tmux is a terminal multiplexer, a software capable of running
multiple terminal session in a single windows. This also allows terminal session
to be “saved” and accessed from another device, meaning using terminal based
editors, your could pickup your work right where you left it seamlessly, from 
pretty much any terminal on OSs supporting tmux (even from your phone!). 
Coupling Tmux with a Virtual-machine hosted source code, it would be
one of the best method I can think of in terms of accessibility and portability
(given you always have an internet connection where you go, which is not a hard
requirement to satisfy in 2023).
```

However, since I’m not yet accustomed to terminal based IDEs, I only used this
method for very small tasks and personal projects.

## Conclusion

> My current setup is not definitive, nor perfect. I keep updating and tweaking it
> as time goes. For example, another solution I might look up in the future is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
My current setup is not definitive, nor perfect. I keep updating and tweaking it
as time goes on. For example, another solution I might look up in the future is
```
